welcome everyone uh welcome to what is
the first of hopefully many system
design breakdowns uh today we're going
to be walking through a common system
design interview question that's asked
at many of the top companies so we're
going to be designing a ticket booking
service like Ticket Master so this
question is asked a lot at meta in
particular especially in what they call
their product design interview though
it's also asked uh quite a bit in the
regular system design interview now I
spent 5 years at meta uh I was an
interviewer a staff engineer there and
I'm now the co-founder of hello
interview which is a site that helps
candidates prepare for upcoming
interviews largely bya mocks with senior
Fang engineers and
managers uh so between asking this
question at meta and asking it in mock
via hello interview I probably asked it
uh probably well over 50 times and I've
seen exactly where candidates of all
levels do well and where they trip up so
today we'll walk through this problem in
the same structure as if it was a real
interview uh but I'll periodically be
interjecting with tips Frameworks Etc
kind of lessons learned from those many
mocks that that I've done across both
meta and hello
interview lastly before we get started
um if videos aren't your thing I've also
written up a a detailed kind of
breakdown of this question on hello
interview so you can head over there and
read this I'll I'll link it below you
can see there's also a number of other
uh breakdowns of common questions that
you can check out as well so without
further Ado let's get into
it okay before we jump immediately into
designing the system let's talk about
the suggested road map and this is the
road map I suggest that you follow for
any of your system design interviews
particularly those that are um designing
these user facing products like design
Ticket Master is so the first thing that
we're going to do is we're going to talk
about the requirements this includes the
functional requirements kind of the
features of the system as well as the
non-functional requirements so the
qualities of the system and then we'll
outline our core enti
this is like what is the data that's
persisted and exchanged throughout our
system we'll go over the apis and then
we'll do a highle design which satisfies
our functional requirements so a simple
design that satisfies the main features
of the system and we'll conclude with
deep Dives and these deep Dives uh will
be a conversation with the interviewer
depending on your level the interviewer
might even lead this um but it's going
to go deeper into satisfying those
non-functional requirements mainly so
this is the plan that that we're going
to follow and we'll go Section by
section the first thing that we'll do is
we'll jump right into the
requirements so when your interview
starts the first thing that you're going
to do is you're going to start by
writing down your functional
requirements these are the features of
the system and they're usually
statements like users should be able to
so when you get here hopefully you've
had some experience with this system in
the past usually they choose really
popular systems if you haven't asked the
interviewer a lot about the system what
is it to do what's most important
functionality where are it features how
to users use it Etc once you have that
good sense then start to list what are
the core features the core meaning the
ones that are most necessary to make
this uh system work in function so in
the case of design Ticket Master the
very first most important one is users
should be able to book tickets so we'll
add book tickets there the Shand of that
uh in order to book a ticket a user
needs to be able to view an event so you
can imagine viewing an event page seeing
a seat map choosing a seat we'll call
this viewing an event so view an event
view the event details who's performing
Etc and then you can ask yourself well
how do they get to we're sort of walking
backwards through the user flow how do
they get to viewing an event in the
first place they need some Discovery
they need some search so users should be
able to search for
events and so in my estimation these are
the main top three functional
requirements you just can search for an
event they'll see a drop- down list of
events I'll click on one of them this
will take them to an event page from
here they can book a ticket to that
event perfect uh these are usually the
functional requirements that most
candidates end up landing on and the
functional requirements that I sort of
like uh push them towards if they're
asking questions or need any
help once you've done your functional
requirements you're going to do your
non-functional
requirements and so your non-functional
requirements are the qualities of the
system they're not
features uh but they're the qualties of
the system like scalability availability
reliability fault tolerance all these
things that I'm sure you've read number
of times uh in the books and the
resources the biggest mistake that
candidates make here though is that they
just write those terms they just write
availability and scalability and and
whatever it may be all of these
idies um this is not always strictly
wrong but it's defeating the purpose
like all systems have those qualities
the important part of non-functional
requirements is to identify what makes
this system unique interesting and
challenging and so you should go through
those Ides in the context specifically
of this problem and we can do that here
now so the first question I usually ask
myself is Cap theorem in the context of
cap theorem is my system going to
prioritize availability or is it going
to prioritize
consistency and kind of the easy right
answer here particularly for mid-level
candidate is that we're going to
prioritize
consistency more than availability
and the reason for this is because we
need to make sure that no ticket is
assigned to more than one user we can
call this no double
booking sheesh typing is bad no double
booking right so for any given ticket we
can only have one user sitting in that
seat so consistency is really important
for us there um however a more nuanced
candidate maybe a senior level candidate
would actually realize that these two
things can coexist and I'm being very
careful when I say that they can coexist
uh but in different parts of your system
in different parts of your microservice
and different parts of your system
architecture so what I would amend this
to is that we need strong consistency
for booking
tickets but at the same
time uh we want High availability for
search and viewing events that's kind of
the right more senior answer there so
when users are searching and they're
viewing events they should be highly
available and it doesn't really matter
if an event was just added and they
don't immediately see it within a couple
of seconds fine but in the case of
booking a ticket if a user in Germany
bought a ticket that I'm viewing while
I'm here in America um I need to know
instantly uh that they booked that
ticket or get an error because I can't
book that ticket anymore right so strong
consistency for booking tickets High
availability for searching and doing
events um what else is interesting in
this system well we can ask oursel first
about the read WR ratio is there
anything unique there and in this case
we would recognize that reads are much
greater than wrs so it's probably like
100 to one uh maybe even a th000 to one
probably 100 to one if our conversion
rate for booking tickets is maybe around
1% so there's going to be a lot more
people searching and viewing events then
they're all ultimately buying this is
going to have consequences on our design
that we'll see later on the next is like
think about how our site is used what's
our query access pattern is often how I
refer to it so um what are what's the
Frequency consistency irregularity with
which requests are hitting our system
and what you would note is that people
don't book tickets to events all that
much there kind of this regular even
consistency uh until you end up having
really popular events and so when Taylor
Swift's tour is about to go live or the
Super Bowl or the World Cup all of a
sudden you have tens maybe even hundreds
of millions of people at your front door
trying to get the same ticket so in the
context of scaling this is an example
where you wouldn't just write
scalability but instead scalability is
important uh but it's to handle surges
from popular events
specifically and so we'll need to design
with that in
mind scaleability
cool awesome um so there's there's a
long list that you can keep going down
these non-functional requirements um
obviously it's important that we don't
use lose data that we remain compliant
with gdpr all of these sorts of things
but if all of that comes to mind what I
usually suggest is that you just note
that as below the line so like out of
scope uh you know gdpr oops gdpr
compliance I'm not going to write all of
these out but fight fault tolerance Etc
you sort of get it and then once you've
done this you can say to the
interviewer uh these are what I'm going
to
prioritize here's what I've considered
out of scope would you like me to
reprioritize any of this is there
anything from down here you'd like me to
move up here anything from down here
you'd like me to move down is sort of a
nice an way to make sure that you check
in you're on the same page with the
interviewer and it shows them that you
have this larger product thinking that
you can think about all of these things
that are necessary in designing a system
um but you also can remain focused on on
what really matters for this particular
system sweet so with that you've defined
the functional and the non-functional
requirements so the next step is for us
to Define our core entities and the API
I'll do these sort of in the same step
here CU they usually come hand in hand
usually you won't spend more than like 2
minutes here on core entities and up to
five on API um but the purpose of the
core
entities is to start to get an
understanding of what data is persisted
in your system and then exchanged by the
apis so this is really going to be
useful um in order to you're going to
use these in order to build your apis as
well as of course your high level design
so you can think here what are the core
entities of a system like Ticket Master
well the first thing is we're going to
have an event
and so admins are going to add these
events uh note that adding events is
going to be out of scope we're going to
be focused just on sort of like the user
flow for our system um but users can add
events events themselves need to be
hosted somewhere so they're usually
hosted at a venue like a stadium uh and
then there's somebody who's performing
there's a performer so we'll probably
have tables for each of these or
collections for each of
these and then maybe most importantly
you need a ticket so we're going to have
a ticket table and this is going to have
all of the tickets for a given event so
that we can determine whether or not
they're available who's purchased them
if they've been purchased their price
stuff like that so these are our core
entities um now one thing that you can
do is that you know next to these you
can mark down what all of their fields
would be name description Etc if you
know them at this point I usually
suggest and for me if I was going and
doing an interview right now I would
just stick to the core entities and I
would be clear to my interviewer like
I'm not going to detail the key fields
and columns yet because the reality is I
don't I don't quite know them yet I'm
too early in my design they're going to
evolve naturally so instead I'm just
going to get a clear sense of what my
core entities are and then as I move
into the high level design and you'll
see this when we get there we'll be more
explicit about exactly the fields that
matter but for now I would stop here and
with the with the core apis defined I
would move on to API and so these are
strictly speaking the user facing apis
these are the API the client is going to
be making in order to satisfy the
functional requirements and so the way
that you do this when you get here is
that you should look back at your
functional requirements and create an
API or in some cases more than one API
in order to satisfy each of these
requirements and they should exchange
return take as input the entities or um
you know properties fields of these
entities so let's run through an example
of that book tickets um let's do that
one last Maybe because it's the most
involved let's start with the simplest
view an event so in order to view an
event I'm going to have a git call I'm
use a rest API that's what you'll
typically do in these interviews uh in
most cases though you should consider
other options graph qall being the main
other one so I'm going to have get event
and then I'm going to have this path Pam
of event ID and so users can pass in an
event ID and what they'll get an
exchange is an event object they'll need
to get information about that venue
they'll need to get information about
that performance this is everything
needed for us to render a page about
this event and then we'll also need a
list of tickets this is going to be so
that we can render the seat map so like
what tickets are available where's their
seat Etc so take an event ID and return
these entities that's going to be for
viewing an event very easy um now we can
look back up here and we can go next for
searching for an event so if you want to
search for an event you would do get
maybe we'll have a search endpoint
um and this search endpoint can take in
things like maybe a search term this can
be free text um so something like this
and it would also probably take in a
location and so maybe this location is
lat longe I'm just going to have it
abstracted as location for now maybe we
have a type or a category so this is
something like uh is it a sporting event
music Etc uh dot dot dot maybe there's
some other query prams that that you
would care about uh date is probably a
really important one too right here like
date
ranges um these are all the optional
fields that you can search for and what
this is going to return is that this is
going to return I'm going to use this is
just pseudo code here um derived or
inspired by typescript but partial event
a list of partial events and the reason
that I say partial here and this isn't
particularly interesting for the
interview you can denote this however
you want um but just so it's clear this
is because I'm going to return just just
a limited amount of information from
that event like the name the description
the performer whatever it may be because
I just need enough to show those search
results and then you'll click on those
search results and and and hit this API
endpoint to get the full detail um but
here's our our search endpoint so we
have a basic um endpoint to satisfy
viewing events a basic endpoint to view
searching for events and the last thing
that we need to do is satisfy booking a
ticket so this one's more interesting
and the reason that I paused before
coming back in into this one is because
uh you'll notice or it's important to
notice that booking is actually a
two-phase process so if you ever used a
Ticket Master or if you've ever bought
an airline ticket you would know that
what you usually do is you see a seat
map or you see an airplane map you
choose a seat and then you go to a
second phase where you're actually going
to purchase that ticket and so in that
second phase you usually have a timer or
a countdown maybe 10 minutes in order to
uh actually purchase that ticket and for
that 10 minutes that ticket's reserved
for you so you click on a ticket it ends
up being reserved you then have 10
minutes to actually book it if you don't
book it that ticket goes back to
available and that's the same pattern
that we'll have here so in an interview
some candidates because they have
experience with these sorts of things
they've thought about that they know
that they know that it's two-phase and
that's usually awesome to see but it's
not a requirement if I see that that a
user writes a single endpoint for
booking a ticket then I'll point out
actually this is going to be a two-phase
process and then they'll they'll amend
it accordingly so what we'll end up
doing here is is we'll have some posts
um and we'll maybe call it booking um
and the first endpoint is going to be
just to reserve and this is going to
take in in the
body just a ticket ID and so there's
variations of this problem where maybe
you can reserve multiple tickets you can
click on multiple seats we're going to
make it simple and just say there's a
single seat that you click on that
seat's associated with a ticket and
you're going to get that ticket ID as
the input and you're going to want to
reserve it you'll notice that I don't
have user ID actually in the body here
this is on purpose uh some candidates
will put user ID here on it it's it's a
security concern you wouldn't past or
post uh a user ID in the in the request
body because that could be altered I
could come in here and then post uh a
reservation on behalf of somebody else
so long as I knew that user ID so
instead usually user information is kept
in the header either via JWT or a
session
token uh and that's usually nice to note
in your interview kind of shows some
technical Excellence but you don't need
to spend too much time here then the the
second thing that you're going to do
that's going to be your reservation this
is going to reserve a ticket for 10
minutes and the user client is going to
go to a payment page and you're then
going to try to fill out that payment
and so now we'll have another endpoint
to confirm again our header is going to
have that JWT we're going to need the
ticket ID to say which one we're
confirming and then we'll have some
payment details probably and so we'll
offload this to stripe thirdparty
payment services stripe has things
called payment intents
um which use common client libraries
that you can set up either in react or
or raw JavaScript whatever it may be um
in order to get this payment information
and this will be posted back then to
your server so we have our two endpoints
just to recap for booking a ticket the
first to reserve and the second to
confirm and so maybe this isn't a post
CU we're not creating a new entry here
uh maybe this is just a put or a patch
respectively um but but certainly not
the most important thing awesome so that
satisfies our core entities and our core
apis and then in the next section we're
going to use these apis in order to
build up our highle
design all right so at this point you
should be about 15 minutes into the
interview um which leaves you about 20
minutes to do your high Lev design and
your deep Dives um give or take
depending on your level maybe it's
taking you a little bit longer to get
here and that would be totally fine as
well but the next step we've done our
requirements qu entities and apis let's
let's get into that highle design so
again the highle Design's goal is to uh
create a simple design that satisfies
our three functional requirements so in
order to do that zoom out a little bit
the first thing our design is going to
have is the client it's going to be the
user that's interfacing with our service
and then we're going to opt for a
microservices architecture this is by
far the most common setup in these types
of interviews if you're not sure which
to go with which architecture to go with
microservices is probably the right call
um so for that reason we're going to
have an API Gateway the API gateway's
main responsibility is to take incoming
API requests and Route them to the
correct server uh the correct micros
service it also does some other things
uh we can note those it does
authentication it often does rate
limiting uh and then of course as we
just mentioned routing is that that most
important one so when we build up our
high level design what we're going to do
is we're just going to go one by one
through our API requests and of course
our API request mapt back to our
functional requirements so we can start
with this one viewing an event what
happens when the client the user ends up
has having a git request to an event ID
in order to view an event well let's
draw that out so what would happen is
first they're going to hit our API
Gateway our API Gateway is going to
Route them to the correct micros service
in this case I'm going to call it the
what am I doing uh I'm going to call
this the event crud
Service uh so so while it's responsible
for creating reading updating and
deleting events um you know most of
those other crowd operations are out of
scope for this problem we're just
handling that view path but that would
be handled in this
microservice so that request is going to
hit this service and then the service is
simply going to read off of our database
so we'll have a database
here and this database is going to store
those core entities that we talked about
so we're going to have an event table
let me zoom in
uh we're going to have an event table
and that event table is going
to uh have an ID it's going to have a
foreign key to a venue ID needs to be
held somewhere there's going to be some
performer or team uh obviously it'll
have a
name
description dot dot dot bunch of
different metadata uh and then
additionally maybe importantly it's also
going to have a on to many relationship
with all the tickets
um so this isn't going to actually be
the ticket information this is just
going to be uh forign keys to all of the
different tickets cool so that's our
event table um they're less important so
we won't spend as much time on them but
we mentioned them so we'll have a venue
which will have an ID it'll have some
location if it's probably going to have
a seat map some stuff like that um oops
and then we'll also have a performer
it'll have an ID dot dot dot who cares
you know the details
there cool and then while we'll we'll
probably come back to it um you know
we'll also have our ticket table and
that ticket table it'll be an ID per
ticket uh probably a seat price Etc
right so seat here is like the location
uh and then of course it's going to have
a relation back to an event so this is
everything that's stored in in this
database um we can opt for you know
here's where that SQL nosql conversation
comes in um
uh uh I'll talk a little bit about why
that's probably not relevant but at
least for this database we talked about
consistency being important for tickets
in particular there's obviously some
decent relationships between this data
we've shown that now one to one one to
many so these are the properties that
matter to us I'm going to go with
postgress a SQL database under the
justification that one it's it's one
that I use frequently um and it
certainly satisfies our requirements
here for assid properties on tickets uh
allows for the ability to do
transactions and a you know it's it's
good for these SQL queries where we'll
have to have some mild relationships but
it's worth knowing that like a nosql
database would have been fine here too
you could have chose Dynamo DB and
actually in your interview no SQL versus
SQL is kind of an old debate like it's
it's not that interesting um what's more
interesting is the qualities of the
database that you need because the
reality is most of the things that a SQL
database can do a nosql database can do
nowaday and most of days that is things
that a SQL database can do and no SQL
database can do so you can have asset
properties on DJ for example um totally
fine actually in the interview it
sometimes not even sometimes it shows
the candidates seniority when they
understand that that's kind of not a
relevant debate like many mid-level
candidates will go SQL versus no SQL and
sort of try to break all of this down
whereas the more senior candidates just
say here are the qualities of the
database that I need either of these
would have worked in this case I'm going
to go with postgress because it's the
one that I'm I'm most familiar with and
it'll do just fine for the job cool
great and we move on um so this is this
is that appropriate time to map out the
fields uh and the columns I mentioned
that we would come back to this at this
point I put them right next to my
database because typically they evolve
and you'll see this they'll evolve in
this design too but this is what we know
for now so coming back to that get
request a user is going to want to view
an event so they're going to hit our
event crud service we'll get the event
details the the venue and the performer
from a join uh as well as you know the
tickets that are available and we'll
return that back to the client so very
simple that satisfies our first API
endpoint here the second one is our
search endpoint um our search endpoint
for that let's do this I'm going to move
these down a little bit
maybe okay and then I'm going to add a
search
service so I'm going to add a search
service and for now in our highle design
I'm going to do this as simple as
humanly possible and that that means
that I'm just going to do this so a user
is going to search for something let's
maybe copy this so that it's close and
and clear they're going to search for
something and at least based on term
type date Etc this can just be a SQL
query so it can be something like select
star from our DB where type in whatever
and uh term or you know name
like uh whatever our term is you kind of
get the picture here um this would work
now for what it's worth this totally
sucks and it's incredibly slow and the
reason it's incredibly slow is these
wild cards here mean that we need to
scan this entire database we need to do
an entire DB scan to see if any of the
names match whatever term was inputed
here um that's not going to cut it but
for now in my highle design I'm going to
leave it like this and I'm going to come
back to this and I might even say that
in the interview I'm going to say this
isn't going to cut it uh I'm going to
come back and optimize this once I've
satisfied all of my functional
requirements first so that's our very
simple search
case um the last thing that we need to
do is we need to satisfy booking so
again two-step booking flow reserve a
ticket and then confirm the purchase of
that so in order to do this I am going
to add a new service which is going to
be my booking
service and so that first request is
going to come in this is going to be
that kind of
reserve request that reserve request
comes in and what do we do the first
thing that we do is we update our
database so this is going to be a single
direction we update our database here um
such that for this ticket ID remember
this Reserve came with a ticket ID so
for this ticket ID we'll look up that
Row in our table and then we'll update a
status column so we'll add a new column
for status and this is going to be
either available reserved or booked and
so we'll update it in this case to
reserve served and then our user will
return to the client saying success 200
and then the next request that's going
to come in is
that purchase request or that confirm
request it's also going to take in a
ticket ID as well as those payment
details right so that guy's going to
come in now we're going to use stripe a
third party payment
processor um in almost all of these
cases you can abstract out away the
payment unless it's an interview that's
like specific for a payment team or has
specifics to do with you needing to
design a payment system but we're just
going to use
stripe because it's interesting the the
way that this works is that you actually
call out to stripe with the payment
information you're going to post to
stripe and then stripe is going to
handle that payment asynchronously it
needs to call out to the credit card
companies determine whether or not it
can be paid for it happens very quickly
for what it's worth but it handles that
asynchronously and then it calls back to
your system not by responding to this
single request but actually via uh a web
hook that you've set up so you're going
to register a call back URL and you'll
have some endpoints in your booking
service Wrong Way
Around um you'll have some endpoint in
your booking service which is exposed
for this to call back to so just good to
know but but not necessary maybe for the
interview the point is we'll get the
payment information we'll call out to
stripe stripe will handle that reach out
to the the credit card companies Etc the
bank
and then respond with what
happened and it's going to respond if
that response is that it was
successfully able to pay then great what
we're going to do then is we're going to
reach back out to our database go to the
ticket table and update this status now
to booked amazing and it would probably
not only be booked but we'll also have
like a user ID here who actually booked
it and now this ticket is no longer
available it's assigned to that user
maybe we'd send them an email all of
this I'm going to consider that out of
scope but that's what's going to happen
in the happy path here so this is sort
of our high level design but a a stute
listeners Watchers would have realized
that there's something wrong with this
two-phase booking process right now and
specifically what's wrong is that if a
user were to click on a seat and then go
to the payment page and on the payment
page they have that 10-minute countdown
what happens if that 10 minutes is
exceeded what happens if they just
closed their laptop and we're done they
decided they didn't actually want this
ticket well in our case what would
happen is that this status would stay
reserved forever and what that means is
that when we show users the seat map
we'd be quering our database for tickets
that are available which would exclude
the reserved of course and that seat
would basically just be infinitely
reserved for that user which is wrong
and that doesn't meet our requirements
of it needing to expire after 10 minutes
so how could we handle that the first
thing that we could do is that we can
add an additional call
here with the time stamp with the time
stamp of when oh my gosh with the time
stamp of when this thing was reserved so
reserved
timestamp and now what we can do is that
when we read the database to see what's
available this query would look like
select all tickets where the status is
available and or excuse me or it's
reserved but the re reserved time stamp
is more than 10 minutes ago so we made
this query a little bit more complicated
but this would absolutely work um now
this is an okay option the the one
downside of this option is that you you
make your database and your data model
here a bit confusing you have a status
of Reserve while things aren't actually
in a reserve status and you need to keep
these two things consistent with one
another that sort of sucks so there's
something else that we can do and we can
introduce for example a Cron job here
and this Cron job might run every 10
minutes or so
and it's responsible for querying the
database for every
ticket querying the database for every
ticket that's in a reserve status uh and
then checking its Reserve time stamp and
if it's been more than 10 minutes since
the resered time stamp then it's going
to set the status back to available so
that's what this Cron job would do now
this works and is totally a valid
approach and in fact for mid-level
candidates uh this is this is kind of a
passing approach for the interview now
for senior and and certainly staff
principal and Beyond this wouldn't quite
be enough and the reason it wouldn't be
enough is because there's a Delta that
gets introduced here we'll call it n
between the time when a ticket should
have been um unreserved and the time
when our Crown job Ran So if our Crown
job ran every 10 minutes or so and we
had a ticket that was supposed to be
unreserved at noon but our Crown job
didn't run again until 12:09 then n
equals 9 we had 9 minutes where this
thing was should have been available but
instead it was reserved and ultimately
the ticket was reserved for 19 minutes
not just 10 as was expected so we need
something that's a bit more real time
and to do this we can do something a bit
more sophisticated we can get rid of the
KRON drob we can actually get rid of the
reserve time stamp as well as well as
this Reserve status and instead we're
going to introduce a distributed
lock so we'll call this our ticket lock
and we can use redus uh you can use kind
of any in memory cache here but what
this is going to be used for is that
when a ticket gets reserved instead of
updating our ticket table at all we're
just going to keep track of that here
and we're going to keep track of it with
a TTL so we'll have some key value pair
of ticket ID to maybe just a Boolean of
true that part doesn't doesn't matter
and then a TTL of 10 minutes and so that
means that after 10 minutes this key
value pair is immediately going to be
deleted from our
database so how would this
work when a user tries to reserve a
ticket from that first API request we're
not going to write to the database at
all instead we're simply going to put
that ticket in our lock we're going to
lock that ticket for 10 minutes by
setting the ticket ID with a TTL of 10
minutes awesome now if 10 minutes
elapses or actually maybe let me not
keep my head of Myself by doing that we
know now things are locked and so in our
event crud service when we want to for a
given event get all of the tickets for
that event and see whether or not
they're available we would need to First
query our database for all tickets that
have a status of available and and then
for each of those ticket IDs we would
need to look them up in reddis to see if
they're reserved if they are we would
remove them from that list of available
tickets and send it back to our client
great now in the case of that user who
closed their laptop you know before they
were able to confirm their payment this
is going to expire immediately at 10
minutes so if a user at 10 minutes and 1
second 10 seconds whatever it wants is
going to be queries to get our seat map
again and to get the available tickets
now when we cross reference it with a
ticket lock that ticket ID is no longer
going to be there and as a result that
ticket is going to be available and it's
going to be shown to the client for them
to be able to book it easy so this is a
super easy elegant solution um to use a
distributed lock here and the reason
that we use a distributed lock as
opposed to maybe just keeping this in
memory in the booking service is because
there's going to be multiple instances
of this booking service right this isn't
a single machine this isn't a single
compute resource um this is going to
horizontally scale and they all need to
have the same consistent singular view
of the lock and so that's why we
separate this out and have it as it uh
kind of as its own um in memory cache
here hopefully that makes sense this
sort of the optimal the optimal
answer um I'll mention just quickly
sometimes candidates will ask or want to
go into an interviewer may ask like what
happens if this lock goes down well if
this lock goes down then you put have
the following issue one we'd immediately
bring a new one up we would detect that
this is down and we would immediately
bring a new one up but that means that
any users that reserved a ticket in that
last 10 minutes lost their reservation
and so in theory for a 10-minute window
we could have several users go to a
payment page and try to book the same
ticket now because this is a um a
postest DB here and we still have the
the acid properties on the right to
available or booked meaning one right
needs to complete before another one
could read it um whoever ends up
submitting that purchase first is going
to win um and the other one's going to
get an error and this is a a bad user
experience it sucks for those users in
that 10-minute window they're going to
have a bad user experience and this is a
conversation that we would have with the
product team like is this okay is it
okay that in the unlikely event we have
a a disaster where our lock goes down
then we'll have a small 10-minute period
where we're not going to lose our
consistency guarantees but our users are
going to have a bad experience and I
would probably argue that that this is
fine for what it's
worth
okay um so this is now our highle Design
This satisfies all of our functional
requirements it's not perfect it doesn't
scale searches is not great but we'll
handle all of that next in our deep
Dives okay now for the fun part so with
the Deep Dives this is where senior and
staff in particular candidates really
earn their keep if you're a mid-level
candidate what you have right here on
the board already might be passing
especially if you got that redest lock
most mid-level candidates don't get that
far most mid-level candidates land on
the um on the Cron job solution that we
discussed but you're close here if
you're a mid-level candidate your
interviewer might ask you a little bit
more about how you would scale the
system they might ask about search being
slow Etc answer those questions well and
you probably have this in the back um in
any case especially for senior and staff
candidates this is the place where
you're going to show off your chops
where you're going to show off that you
can go deep and your goal should be to
find one to three places where you can
show off that depth I'm going to go into
detail on a couple of such places but by
no means are these the only places
they're not the ones an interviewer is
explicitly looking for it's really up to
you to decide where you lead the
conversation from here now the process
that you should take when you hit the
non-functional or excuse me when you hit
the the Deep Dives is to reference your
non-functional requirements
and look at them and see what's missing
and that should really inform where you
go next with your Deep dive so we talked
a lot about how search wasn't optimized
and that's the first place that I want
to start and actually you'll notice that
oh I went back and added it here already
um but we originally didn't have low
latency search and this was a miss so
this was something that I missed
originally in the non-functional
requirements I realized it as I was
designing the system and it's totally
okay to go back and edit it that's
something that you can do and should do
in the interview that's great so what's
the first one that we're going to handle
here low latency search so we come back
and our current solution we know is slow
the current solution is slow because we
do a full table scan on a query like
this so this is our API endpoint for
search I'm just going to move it out of
the way I'm going to delete that and the
common solution to search problems like
this is to introduce a search optimized
database and a very popular one and one
that I recommend you use in your
interviews is called elastic search
and so the way that elastic search works
is along with other things it builds an
inverted index to make searching
documents by terms really quickly so you
can imagine that we have an event an
event has some text for the name and the
description and maybe all of these other
things that describe the event and what
we're going to do is we're going to
tokenize that string or those sets of
strings and create terms from them so
you could imagine that the string might
be the Philadelphia Eagles are playing
in a wild card match up against the
Broncos this that and the other I guess
that couldn't happen NFC versus AFC but
you get my point we would turn that
into uh Philadelphia Eagles playoff Wild
Card all those terms and then we can map
those in a hash map of sorts to the
documents or in our case the events that
those show up in so the word playoff
shows up in event one event two and
event three and then maybe the word
swift like Taylor Swift shows up in
event five event six six and event n you
get the point and so now you have this
really quick lookup such that if
somebody searches in description for
playoff then we can easily return to
them all the events that mentioned
playoffs and show them the relevant
events based on their search term and
this can be combined not just on
description not just on name we would
probably search term on each of those
elastic search also has support for
geospatial queries it actually uses a
combination of quad trees and geohashing
if I'm not mistaken don't quote me on
that um but I'm pretty sure and so you
can do these sorts of things like
searching for location and terms and
dates at the same time and it'll use the
the varying indexes that it's created
whether these inverted indexes or
geospatial indexes to make it as quick
as possible so elastic search is a
really effective solution to make these
search queries as quick as possible so
we can delete this line and instead
we'll search using elastic search
and so then the question becomes how do
we get data into elastic search and how
do we make sure that that data is
consistent with what's in our primary
database and so it's important to note
that it's not best practice to use
elastic search as your primary data
store this is usually on the back of
durability concerns and it has no
support for like complex transaction
management um actually we use the
elastic search um as a primary data
store for for our first startup and we
learned the hard way that it didn't work
out very well so I know this from first
and
experience um so as a result of that we
need some way to make sure that if
anything changes in our primary database
that change gets propagated to elastic
search and so there's a couple ways that
we can do that the simplest way is that
we just handle this all in our
application code so in this case anytime
an event is added anytime an event is
added we'll write it to our postgress DB
and we'll also write it to elastic
search now this puts some complex logic
kind of complex logic in your
application code here because you'll
need to make sure what happens if this
right fails then you don't want this
right to happen What happens if this
right fails then you probably need to
retry this rate right or back out um
reverse that first right so there's some
things to consider there depending on
your product requirements but that's
definitely a viable
solution another common solution that
you'll see pop up a lot is using what's
called change data capture so change
data capture or CDC as it's often
referred to do is a process for which
changes to a primary data store uh can
be put onto a stream and then those
change events can be consumed and
something can be done with them so in
this case anytime something changes that
change event will be put on a stream we
can consume it and then update elastic
search with whatever that change was so
in interviews this is often times just
abstracted to be
this uh you know you can just do that
Tech technically speaking like this is a
large abstraction you know this is a
stream there would have to be some
worker that that does the right here um
but often times this is good enough in
the interview you might want to clarify
that this is an abstraction but that
would work well the one thing to be
aware of with CDC and particularly with
rights to elastic search is that it has
a limit on the number of rights that it
could take per second because it's
updating these indexes right in each
right so for services that you're
systems that you're going to be
designing for which there are a lot of
updates to elastic search then you'll
need to do something smarter here like
have a queue have some batching whatever
but in our case you would note in the
interview that events venues performers
like these don't change a lot they
hardly ever change and not only do they
not change a lot but they're hardly ever
added maybe at most an admin adds tens
hundreds maybe even thousands a day but
that's absolutely nothing um so we don't
necessarily need the queue there we can
just update elastic search on each
change to our primary
database so in doing that our search is
pretty dang quick this is great the
introduc of introduction of elastic
search was perfect I'll spend just a
moment going into how we can make this
maybe even faster your interviewer might
ask you what about popular queries what
about if everybody is searching for
Taylor Swift how can we make that as
quick as possible um so the answer to
that is usually cashing now you need to
recognize that in our system we're not
doing any ranking or recommendation
for users so if two users search for the
same thing they're going to get the same
result that's important and that's very
important to note for caching of course
um and so there's a couple ways that we
can handle this the first is that for
elastic search here you might be using
and you probably are using open search
AWS is open search this is like a fully
managed elastic search
cluster and open search supports
something
called node query caching I believe
that's what it's called again maybe
don't quote me look that up but I think
that's what it's called and what this is
is that this is a cache on each of the
instances of your elastic search cluster
each of your shards um and it caches the
top 10K queries to that shard in a least
recently used cache so you can enable
that I think just via the config and
that's a great option quick dirty easy
and that's going to work great so that's
going to of option one another thing
that you can do of course is that you
could add redis or mcache here and you
could cache your search term or some
normalization of your search search term
as well as the search results then that
would work fine as well then you just
need to make sure that you invalidate
appropriately when there are updates
made things like that so that's an
option another option and the option
that I would probably take here just
because it's it's quick and easy is that
your system probably already has a CDN
uh for the static images which was scope
for us but you know most systems will
have it and so we can have a CDN here
and what the CDN is going to do is that
the CDN can
cash these API calls so it can cach this
API call and its results and usually
when you cach an API endpoint in a CDN
it's for a short period of time 30
seconds to a minute or so but that way
if a lot of people are searching for the
same exact search term then you can just
return those results immediately by
hitting that CDN which is of course
geographically located close to them so
this is wicked fast um a couple
downsides to note here Pros it's super
fast great for those super popular
events in particular um but this becomes
less useful the more permutations you
have of your search query so like we
already have a lot of things here type
date location if this was lat Lae then
this would kind of take this out of the
picture because it would be a user's lat
La that would have too much precision um
and thus we would never have any overlap
two users would never hit the same but
if this was something like San Francisco
okay and then turn and so like maybe
that would be small enough that you
would have enough cash hits but the more
query terms that you have here the more
query pams the less likely you're going
to get cash hits and the more likely
that you're just wasting space in the
CDN so that's definitely something to
consider and then of course as I
mentioned earlier if the system evolved
such that it gave personal
recommendations then this wouldn't
suffice because this would mean that
everybody who searched the same um uh
you know search with the same API call
here they would get the same results and
that wouldn't be true for our system
anymore because people should get
personalized results so these are all
the sorts of things that you can mention
in the interview um and it's impressive
just throw some of these things out
there if they're contextually relevant
okay so we talked a lot about search
there that's the search deep dive
looking back at our non functional
requirements low latency search check we
met that okay great um I'm actually
going to go out of order here just
because I want to focus on maybe some of
the most fun and interesting ones and
I'm going to go to scalability to handle
surges from popular events so let's take
a moment to lead the conversation then
in that
direction so the first thing that you'll
notice is taking a step back and
focusing on the user experience when
user comes to our website and they click
on an event they're going to see those
event details about the event venue
performer and they're going to see a
seat map and the seat map is going to
show them seats that are available and
seats that are already booked and they
can click on those that are available
and so the way that this would work in
our system right now is that they would
query our event cred service we would
query to get our event venue and
performer and then we would query to get
the tickets for that event with their
available or book status and then we
would need to cross reference that
available or book status with tickets
that might be in our lock so anything
that's in our lock needs to be moved
from available to reserved or just
booked so that uh the client knows that
it can't book it so we would do all of
that and give it back to the client now
the issue with this is that we made that
API call we loaded that up on the client
and now immediately the client sees an
accurate
representation but after 1 second 2
seconds 5 Seconds 5 minutes 10 minutes
it's grown stale and now they can be
clicking on seats that appear to be
available but they're no longer
available and we're going to have to
immediately give the user an error and
that's a really bad
experience so particularly for these
more popular events that would happen a
lot like a lot of people are buying
tickets so it could go sale really
quickly so the first thing that we could
do here is we could try to make that map
real time and this means that anytime a
ticket becomes reserved or moved to book
then we update the client to mark that
seat in real time as no longer available
and we could do that a couple of ways
the first thing that we could do and
would probably be the most simple is we
could just use long pulling um so long
pulling is the client opens up uh or
sends in an HTTP request and then that
request is kept open for usually like 30
seconds to a minute or so for the server
to be able to
respond um and this can happen in a
while loop so you kind of just keep long
pulling keep long pulling so the server
can keep sending things back and keep
sending things back and in our case keep
the seats updated so that's one option
it would be super cheap it's easy to
implement requires no additional
infrastructure um especially if users
are not on this page for a long time
this is great if users are on this page
for a minute to 5 minutes this is
perfect if we find from our analytics
that users sit on these Pages for a
really long time 5 10 20 30 minutes
hours then we may need a slightly more
sophisticated approach and that
sophisticated approach could be to open
up a a persistent connection so your
mind might have gone to websockets and
that would be an option A websocket is a
bidirectional persistent connection um
but instead we could probably go for
Server sent events or
ssse and so while not similar maybe in
implementation they're similar and that
they are a persistent connection between
the client and the server such that the
server can send information to the
client um not only when the client sends
a response so in the beginning open up
that connection and then the CL or the
server can push information over that SS
connection kind of whenever it wants so
long as the connection's still open and
the difference the key difference aside
from their implementation between
websockets and ssse is that websockets
are fully bidirectional SS is
unidirectional so it's only server to
client and that's all that we need here
right we only need our server to be able
to tell our client that new seats have
been taken so that's something that that
you could do and you could talk about
this in the interview um I'm going to
set up S connections persistent
connections between my API Gateway my
event cred service and my client and
every single time there's a change to
either of these on the status of
available or booked or on my reserved
I'm going to push that change over to my
client and the implementation there is
actually a bit more complex it's
probably out of scope for this interview
but that's kind of the degree that you
would probably go into um and that'll be
fine and then your interviewer might
point out or maybe you would notice
proactively that this is great but when
Taylor Swift the Super Bowl the World
Cup comes around the user experience is
going to be that they get to that page
and it immediately goes black they'll
see all these available seats and then
within you know a couple couple
milliseconds it's just going to go black
because everything got booked because
you had 100,000 or a million people all
trying to fight for the same 10,000 to
100,000 seats and so that's not great so
what can we do to fix that issue now the
solution there is that we need to
introduce a choke point we basically
need to protect our backend Services
introduce a choke point improve the user
experience by doing so and that choke
point would be by way of what's referred
to as a virtual waiting queue so what
you would end up with is let's see if I
can make room for this you can move all
of this
over
and introduce
here a virtual waiting queue and so this
virtual waiting queue could be only
enabled for really popular Events maybe
it's admin enabled there's some config
here and an admin determines what events
we should introduce a virtual waiting
queue for but at a high level in
abstraction what happens is that you
have a million people or so that all try
to buy the tlor Swift tickets and
instead of seeing that event detail page
they enter a waiting queue and they get
a message that says thanks for your
interest you're in the queue we'll let
you know when you're out um and they get
put in this queue and this queue could
just be redis here um that would
probably be a cheap lightweight
implementation you can use Aus sorted
set so that it's a priority queue based
on the time that they arrived other
implementations make this random so it's
a bit more fair and it's not just the
users who are closest to our our company
servers that maybe get in first but in
any case you'll have that set and then
you'll probably have some event driven
logic such that you know once we have
100 seats booked we let the first 100
people in once we have 100 seats that
are booked we let the next 100 or
thousand whatever it may be and you pull
those people off of the queue maybe you
put their user ID or their session or
you assigned them a token and you pull
that off this virtual waiting queue and
then you can notify the users maybe over
that same ssse connection that you
created um prior that they're ready to
go and then that user can be let in and
that user can book so this is actually a
really nice example where this is a
simple solution it's a simple solution
but it's a sophisticated solution and it
shows that often times like the best
answer isn't the most technically
complex um but instead it solves the
problem in a simple and maybe creative
way so the virtual waiting Q There is
great um okay those are those are some
great deep Dives we can come back and
look strong consistency for booking
tickets we actually already covered that
in our functional requirements when we
were dealing with booking we introduced
our reddest lock so we we got to that
one early we covered that we have strong
consistency that's wonderful High
availability for searching and viewing
as well as our read uh to write ratio
being in the favor of reads
significantly so this is where you might
just get the normal questions of like
how would you scale the system or maybe
you proactively talk about it as an
interviewer I usually find these
discussions kind of the least
interesting and that's because here's
what you're going to say you're going to
say something like I use AWS API Gateway
here which is managed it has its own
load balancer so this is scaling um each
of these have their own load balancers
and dynamically Scale based on memory
consumption or CPU consumption so these
scale horizontally that's great um for
my databases here maybe you talk about
sharding this would be an appropriate
time actually to even do some math um
actually quick aside on math uh astute
Watchers might have realized that I
didn't do any back of the envelope
estimations after my non-functional
requirements um this is on purpose
actually recommend this so most
candidates will do some back of the
envelope estimations there and it'll be
things like um QPS and daily active
users and storage and at the end of it
they'll go wow okay it's a lot so it's
going to be a big system and then
they'll keep going I didn't learn
anything about the candidate the
candidate didn't learn anything that
would inform their design they were just
checking a box so I considered this
useless I consider this math without a
purpose so math is good but my
recommendation is that you only do
calculations if the result of the
calculations will have a direct
influence on your design and usually the
right time to do that is either in your
high level design or in your deep Dives
so for example maybe I do some math here
now and I won't because I don't want
this video to go a little uh too long
but I could do some math to see what the
storage is here in this postgress DB to
make a determination as to whether we
need to Shard or not or it could fit
into uh you know a single postgress
instance and so if I came to the
conclusion that we did need to Shard
then I would have a conversation about
what I need to Shard on and maybe that's
event ID because that's what the
majority of my queries are in or if
we're sharding and then Distributing
these shards geographically maybe I do
it over venue ID if there's High
correlation between people searching for
events that are in venues close to them
then maybe that makes sense too so you
would weigh that um again no wrong no
right answer it's a discussion maybe to
have with the interviewer weigh the pros
and cons but that's something that you
could talk about there too so that's the
general scaling conversation and then
given that reads are so much higher than
wres another thing that we could do is
to reduce the read load on our postgress
DB here and especially because event
venue and performer never change or very
infrequently change it makes them a
great candidate to just cash them to
hell so we could have reddis
here and we can cash those events venues
and performers in reddis make sure that
if we make any updates to our database
then we'll have to invalidate or update
our cash as well there doesn't need to
be an eviction policy like least
frequently used or least recently used
or anything because we can probably fit
them all in there um or maybe we just do
events that are you know upcoming or
within the last four months and in the
next 2 years whatever it may be you
introduce some bounds there but now this
makes this view API call this one wicked
fast because we can just cash a key
value pairer of an event ID to the event
venue and performer relevant to it and
then we only need to make a query to get
tickets cuz that's the one that's
Dynamic so we'll we'll not cash that one
in this
case awesome um okay so that's a little
taste of some of the deep Dives that you
could do I think what we end up here is
a pretty solid design if you did this
you certainly passed a mid-level
interview uh with flying flying flying
colors this is overkill for a mid-level
interview by far you definitely pass a
senior interview that's great you
probably pass a St interview um
depending on how well you executed how
well you were able to answer some
questions and if you showed some depth
in other places um and you know
principles usually evaluated at the same
level of staff
so you pass that as well um okay last
thing here is that when you conclude you
should be able to look at your design
concretely and you should be able to say
does this satisfy all of my functional
requirements and does it satisfy all of
my non-functional requirements if you
can say yes to both of those things then
you should feel confident just put your
hands up you should say I know I passed
this interview I can't wait to get the
call back obviously don't say that um
and you're probably hired so that's the
the process that you should
follow all right thanks everyone for
watching I really hope you found this
valuable uh if you did let me know in
the comments I want to do more of these
and uh if people are finding value out
of them then that'll encourage me to
keep pumping them out um also if there's
anything that I did wrong uh if you
think was silly was a bad design
decision or if you just have general
questions please leave those in the
comments I'd love to chat about it um
but thanks so much for watching and good
luck with your upcoming interviews take
care